# Drawing/Doodle Recognition using Deep Learning

Sketching or drawing has roots throughout the history of mankind- for simple representations of real-world entities- from Egyptian cave paintings to modern cartoonists. A major element of sketches is that they incorporate the creator's perception with a very strong flavor. The differences in RGB image classification versus drawing/doodle classification contribute towards the difficulty of this task, as doodles are usually grayscale. Issues with this task are further aggravated with the hugely varying perceptions of objects by humans. 

In this paper, we work on a sequential strokes-based doodle dataset collected by Google through the [Quick Draw! Game][1], spanning across 340 classes. The dataset also includes incomplete & noisy doodles, with class labels. This work includes pre-processing and normalization of the dataset, where the doodles are of different sizes. We start off by experimenting with different baselines and state-of-the-art Convolution-based architectures models in the sketch recognition task, by pre-processing the sequential strokes data to 2-dimensional images data. We augment the implementation of the Convolution-based architecture with Recurrent layers- LSTM/Bidirectional-LSTMs, for capturing the temporal information in the strokes data and avoiding the preprocessing step of conversion into 2-dimensional images. We have also experimented with different initial learning rates, dropout rates, & callbacks for an improved learning process. We conclude with a successful implementation of a multi-label, multi-class classifier for a subset of classes in the dataset, with an accuracy of 84.18% and a top-3 accuracy of 93.63%. This work lays groundwork for future implementations spanning the entire dataset provided by [Quick Draw! By Google][1].

* [Report](https://github.com/1310aditya/Quick-Draw-Doodle-Recognition/blob/master/cs682_final_report.pdf)

	[1]: https://www.kaggle.com/c/quickdraw-doodle-recognition/data.